[Music]
as soon as it's light enough
gordon checks his traps
with luck their footage will reveal what
these giants are doing at night
right here we go
oh look at this
the traps have done their job
oh she's having sniff he's having a
sniff at the tree
the cameras have recorded over 15 hours
of footage
surprisingly several different
individuals have visited this same spot
oh look this one's got a baby on its
back
you can just see it
they seem drawn to the tree where gordon
found
mysterious scratch marks
oh wow
that's what it is
whoa that anteater is actually off the
ground
he's technically climbing
giant anteaters are ground dwellers and
are not known to climb
this animal isn't reaching he's not
standing up in his back legs
he's actually climbing the tree
so all these marks way up the tree have
been left
by that mysterious creature the giant
anteater
the big question is why is the anteater
climbing the tree i think it may well
have something to do with marking
a territory that different anteaters
come here
and they scratch and they leave a scent
behind
smell is incredibly important to these
giants
the camera trap images suggest that they
use scent to communicate
and to map each other's movements in the
dark
there's not that much known about giant
anteaters but one thing that is
in every publication is that they do not
climb trees and here we have
an anteater climbing a tree oh wow
wow look at him gordon
has done more than just film these
animals
he has documented a completely new
behavior
this is the first place it's ever been
[Music]
filmed
[Applause]
foreign